apps/web/src/app/docs/concepts/information-points/page.mdx, before:

# Information Points

**The atomic unit of knowledge in Cognia.**

---

## What is an Information Point?

An **Information Point (IP)** is a single, testable concept—the smallest meaningful unit of knowledge.

Everything in Cognia ultimately comes down to IPs:
- Courses are collections of IPs (organized into lessons and modules)
- Mastery is tracked per IP
- Quizzes test specific IPs
- The spaced repetition algorithm schedules IPs for review

**Think of IPs like vocabulary flashcards, but for any kind of knowledge.** Each card has one concept. You either know it or you don't. The system tracks each independently.

---

## Examples

Here are IPs from different subjects:

### Programming (Python Basics)
| IP Title | IP Type |
|----------|---------|
| "What is a variable?" | Definition |
| "Integer type in Python" | Concept |
| "How to convert string to int" | Procedure |
| "Variables vs. constants example" | Example |

### Economics (Supply and Demand)
| IP Title | IP Type |
|----------|---------|
| "Definition of demand" | Definition |
| "Law of demand" | Concept |
| "How to read a supply curve" | Procedure |
| "Coffee price increase example" | Example |

### Language (Spanish)
| IP Title | IP Type |
|----------|---------|
| "Verb 'ser' meaning" | Definition |
| "Ser vs. estar distinction" | Concept |
| "Conjugating 'ser' in present tense" | Procedure |
| "Using 'ser' for professions" | Example |

---

## IP Types

Each IP has a **type** that determines how it's taught and tested:

| Type | What It Is | Quiz Styles |
|------|------------|-------------|
| **Definition** | What something means | True/false, fill-in-blank |
| **Concept** | How something works or relates | Multiple choice, explain |
| **Procedure** | Steps to accomplish something | Sequence, code execution |
| **Example** | Concrete instance of a concept | Recognition, comparison |

The AI assigns types during generation, and quiz questions are selected to match.

---

## What Makes a Good IP?

Information Points should be:

### 1. Atomic
One concept per IP. If it has "and" in the title, it might be two IPs.

```
❌ "Variables and functions"      → Too broad
✅ "What is a variable?"          → One concept
✅ "What is a function?"          → One concept
```

### 2. Testable
You should be able to ask a question where the answer proves understanding.

```
❌ "Python is popular"            → Can't really test this
✅ "What is Python's typing style?" → Testable (dynamically typed)
```

### 3. Sized Right
About 5-10 minutes of content. If explaining it takes 30 minutes, break it into multiple IPs.

### 4. Clear Dependencies
What must you know before this? Each IP declares its prerequisites.

```
IP: "List comprehension syntax"
Prerequisites: ["For loops", "Lists"]
```

---

## IP Content Structure

Each IP contains:

```typescript
interface InformationPoint {
  // Identity
  id: string;
  title: string;           // "What is a variable?"
  type: 'definition' | 'concept' | 'procedure' | 'example';
  
  // Content
  content: string;         // Markdown explanation
  difficultyLevel: number; // 1-10
  
  // Relationships
  lessonId: string;
  order: number;           // Position in lesson
  
  // Dependencies
  prerequisites: string[]; // IPs that must come before
  relatedPoints: string[]; // IPs that connect conceptually
  
  // Quiz configuration
  applicableQuizTypes: string[]; // What kinds of questions work
}
```

---

## Prerequisites vs. Related Points

Two kinds of relationships between IPs:

### Prerequisites
**Must** be understood first. Enforced by the system.
- "Integer type" → prerequisite for "Type conversion"
- "For loops" → prerequisite for "List comprehension"

### Related Points
Conceptually connected, but not required.
- "Integer type" ↔ "Float type" (similar concepts)
- "For loops" ↔ "While loops" (alternative approaches)

Related points enable "comparison" quiz types and "see also" suggestions.

---

## IP Lifecycle

An IP progresses through states as you learn it:

```
                    ┌─────────────────────────────────────────┐
                    │                                         │
                    ▼                                         │
┌────────┐    Learn Mode    ┌──────────┐    Quiz    ┌─────────┴──┐
│ UNSEEN │ ───────────────▶ │ LEARNING │ ────────▶ │  REVIEWING │
└────────┘                  └──────────┘           └─────┬──────┘
     │                           ▲                       │
     │                           │                       │ mastery ≥ 80%
     │                           │                       ▼
     │                           │                 ┌──────────┐
     │                           │                 │ MASTERED │
     │                           │                 └────┬─────┘
     │                           │                      │
     │                           │   mastery drops      │
     │                           └──────────────────────┘
     │
     └── (Skip quiz can jump directly to REVIEWING)
```

| State | Meaning |
|-------|---------|
| **Unseen** | Not yet introduced |
| **Learning** | Introduced via Learn Mode, now quiz-eligible |
| **Reviewing** | Being actively tested and reinforced |
| **Mastered** | ≥80% mastery, stable recall |

---

## Why IPs Matter

The granularity of Information Points is what enables Cognia's precision:

### Precise Tracking
"You know 80% of this course" is vague.
"You're solid on loops and functions but struggling with recursion" is actionable.

With IP-level tracking, we know *exactly* where your gaps are.

### Targeted Review
Spaced repetition works on individual items. When the algorithm schedules review, it picks *specific IPs* that are due—not vague "review Chapter 3."

### Clear Dependencies
By declaring prerequisites at the IP level, the system can:
- Ensure proper sequencing
- Explain *why* you need to learn A before B
- Suggest remediation when you struggle with advanced concepts

### Measurable Progress
Progress isn't "you've watched 70% of videos."
It's "you've demonstrated recall of 70% of IPs to mastery level."

---

## IPs in Practice

When you study, you're always working with IPs:

**In Learn Mode:**
> AI introduces one IP at a time, explaining and checking understanding

**In Quiz Mode:**
> Each question tests a specific IP (you can see which one)

**In Your Daily Queue:**
> "10 items due today" = 10 IPs scheduled for review

**In Progress Views:**
> "85% mastered" = 85% of IPs at ≥80% mastery

---

*Continue to [Course Modes & Explore](/docs/concepts/learning-modes) →*

Commit message:

feat(docs): refine Information Points examples for clarity and testability
- Updated examples of Information Points (IPs) to provide clearer definitions and enhance testability.
- Revised IP titles to factual statements, improving the ability to derive meaningful questions.
- Adjusted content in the learning hierarchy documentation to align with the new IP examples, ensuring consistency across documentation.

apps/web/src/app/docs/concepts/information-points/page.mdx, after:

# Information Points

**The atomic unit of knowledge in Cognia.**

---

## What is an Information Point?

An **Information Point (IP)** is a single, testable concept—the smallest meaningful unit of knowledge.

Everything in Cognia ultimately comes down to IPs:
- Courses are collections of IPs (organized into lessons and modules)
- Mastery is tracked per IP
- Quizzes test specific IPs
- The spaced repetition algorithm schedules IPs for review

**Think of IPs like vocabulary flashcards, but for any kind of knowledge.** Each card has one concept. You either know it or you don't. The system tracks each independently.

> **IPs are statements, not questions.**
>
> An IP is a factual statement from which questions can be derived. For example:
> - **IP:** "Henry VIII had 6 wives"
> - **Quiz questions derived from it:** "How many wives did Henry VIII have?", "True/False: Henry VIII had 5 wives", "Which monarch had 6 wives?"
>
> This design allows infinite question variants to test the same underlying knowledge.

---

## Examples

Here are IPs from different subjects:

### Programming (Python Basics)
| IP Title | IP Type |
|----------|---------|
| "A variable is a named container for storing data" | Definition |
| "Integer type in Python" | Concept |
| "String to int conversion uses the int() function" | Procedure |
| "Variables vs. constants example" | Example |

### Economics (Supply and Demand)
| IP Title | IP Type |
|----------|---------|
| "Definition of demand" | Definition |
| "Law of demand" | Concept |
| "How to read a supply curve" | Procedure |
| "Coffee price increase example" | Example |

### Language (Spanish)
| IP Title | IP Type |
|----------|---------|
| "Verb 'ser' meaning" | Definition |
| "Ser vs. estar distinction" | Concept |
| "Conjugating 'ser' in present tense" | Procedure |
| "Using 'ser' for professions" | Example |

---

## IP Types

Each IP has a **type** that determines how it's taught and tested:

| Type | What It Is | Quiz Styles |
|------|------------|-------------|
| **Definition** | What something means | True/false, fill-in-blank |
| **Concept** | How something works or relates | Multiple choice, explain |
| **Procedure** | Steps to accomplish something | Sequence, code execution |
| **Example** | Concrete instance of a concept | Recognition, comparison |

The AI assigns types during generation, and quiz questions are selected to match.

---

## What Makes a Good IP?

Information Points should be:

### 1. Atomic
One concept per IP. If it has "and" in the title, it might be two IPs.

```
❌ "Variables and functions"      → Too broad
✅ "A variable is a container for storing data" → One concept
✅ "Functions encapsulate reusable code" → One concept
```

### 2. Testable
You should be able to derive questions from it that prove understanding.

```
❌ "Python is popular"            → Can't derive meaningful questions
✅ "Python uses dynamic typing"   → Testable (enables T/F, MC questions)
```

### 3. Sized Right
About 5-10 minutes of content. If explaining it takes 30 minutes, break it into multiple IPs.

### 4. Clear Dependencies
What must you know before this? Each IP declares its prerequisites.

```
IP: "List comprehension syntax"
Prerequisites: ["For loops", "Lists"]
```

---

## IP Content Structure

Each IP contains:

```typescript
interface InformationPoint {
  // Identity
  id: string;
  title: string;           // "A variable is a container for storing data"
  type: 'definition' | 'concept' | 'procedure' | 'example';
  
  // Content
  content: string;         // Markdown explanation
  difficultyLevel: number; // 1-10
  
  // Relationships
  lessonId: string;
  order: number;           // Position in lesson
  
  // Dependencies
  prerequisites: string[]; // IPs that must come before
  relatedPoints: string[]; // IPs that connect conceptually
  
  // Quiz configuration
  applicableQuizTypes: string[]; // What kinds of questions work
}
```

---

## Prerequisites vs. Related Points

Two kinds of relationships between IPs:

### Prerequisites
**Must** be understood first. Enforced by the system.
- "Integer type" → prerequisite for "Type conversion"
- "For loops" → prerequisite for "List comprehension"

### Related Points
Conceptually connected, but not required.
- "Integer type" ↔ "Float type" (similar concepts)
- "For loops" ↔ "While loops" (alternative approaches)

Related points enable "comparison" quiz types and "see also" suggestions.

---

## IP Lifecycle

An IP progresses through states as you learn it:

```
                    ┌─────────────────────────────────────────┐
                    │                                         │
                    ▼                                         │
┌────────┐    Learn Mode    ┌──────────┐    Quiz    ┌─────────┴──┐
│ UNSEEN │ ───────────────▶ │ LEARNING │ ────────▶ │  REVIEWING │
└────────┘                  └──────────┘           └─────┬──────┘
     │                           ▲                       │
     │                           │                       │ mastery ≥ 80%
     │                           │                       ▼
     │                           │                 ┌──────────┐
     │                           │                 │ MASTERED │
     │                           │                 └────┬─────┘
     │                           │                      │
     │                           │   mastery drops      │
     │                           └──────────────────────┘
     │
     └── (Skip quiz can jump directly to REVIEWING)
```

| State | Meaning |
|-------|---------|
| **Unseen** | Not yet introduced |
| **Learning** | Introduced via Learn Mode, now quiz-eligible |
| **Reviewing** | Being actively tested and reinforced |
| **Mastered** | ≥80% mastery, stable recall |

---

## Why IPs Matter

The granularity of Information Points is what enables Cognia's precision:

### Precise Tracking
"You know 80% of this course" is vague.
"You're solid on loops and functions but struggling with recursion" is actionable.

With IP-level tracking, we know *exactly* where your gaps are.

### Targeted Review
Spaced repetition works on individual items. When the algorithm schedules review, it picks *specific IPs* that are due—not vague "review Chapter 3."

### Clear Dependencies
By declaring prerequisites at the IP level, the system can:
- Ensure proper sequencing
- Explain *why* you need to learn A before B
- Suggest remediation when you struggle with advanced concepts

### Measurable Progress
Progress isn't "you've watched 70% of videos."
It's "you've demonstrated recall of 70% of IPs to mastery level."

---

## IPs in Practice

When you study, you're always working with IPs:

**In Learn Mode:**
> AI introduces one IP at a time, explaining and checking understanding

**In Quiz Mode:**
> Each question tests a specific IP (you can see which one)

**In Your Daily Queue:**
> "10 items due today" = 10 IPs scheduled for review

**In Progress Views:**
> "85% mastered" = 85% of IPs at ≥80% mastery

---

*Continue to [Course Modes & Explore](/docs/concepts/learning-modes) →*
